Automated, Artificial Intelligence–Enabled Help Desk
(AI Help Desk) Assessment Event White Paper Submission
THIS IS THE TITLE PAGE AND DOES NOT COUNT TOWARDS PAGE TOTAL
Provide Company Name, Title, Date, Point of Contact, Email Address/Phone/Address
Cyber Innovation Challenge (CIC #5)
Automated, Artificial Intelligence–Enabled Help Desk
(AI Help Desk) Assessment Event White Paper Submission
Interested companies are requested to submit a proposal through Vulcan that includes the
following information:
• Detailed description of the proposed AI/ML-Enabled Help Desk Capability, as related
to the vision and requirements in the RFS
• A description of the AI algorithms, techniques and technologies used in the platform
• A plan for integrating the proposed solution into the PCTE operational environment
• A proposed timeline for development and deployment
• A cost estimate
• Company qualifications and experience
In addition:
• Unnecessarily elaborate brochures or proposals are not desired.
• Use of a diagram(s) or figure(s) to depict the architecture and essence of the proposed
solution is strongly encouraged.
• The period of performance for any solution submitted under this RFS should
generally be no greater than 24-months.
• Technical data with military application may require appropriate approval,
authorization or license for lawful exportation.
• All submissions shall be unclassified. Any materials containing data that is not to be
disclosed to the public for any purpose or used by the Government/Stakeholder
except for evaluation purposes shall include the following sentences on the cover
page. As an exception, the paragraph below will be accepted on the cover page in
Times New Roman, 9pt font size. All other information should be in Times New
Roman, 12pt font size to qualify for consideration.
“This [insert type of document] includes data that shall not be disclosed outside
the Government / Stakeholder, except to non-Government personnel for
evaluation purposes, and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed -- in whole or
in part -- for any purpose other than to evaluate this submission. If, however, an
agreement is awarded to this Company as a result of -- or in connection with –
the submission of this data, the Government / Stakeholder shall have the right to
duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent agreed upon by both parties in
the resulting agreement. This restriction does not limit the Government /
Stakeholder's right to use the information contained in this data if it is obtained
from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are
contained in sheets [insert numbers or other identification of sheets]”
• Foreign-Owned businesses may independently submit a solution or do so as part of a
teaming arrangement with one or more United States-Owned businesses. However,
the ability to obtain an agreement based upon a submission may depend upon the
ability of the Foreign-Owned business to obtain necessary clearances and approvals
to obtain proscribed information.
Cyber Innovation Challenge (CIC #5)
Automated, Artificial Intelligence–Enabled Help Desk
(AI Help Desk) Assessment Event White Paper Submission
• Submissions must be submitted electronically via Vulcan. Submitting through Vulcan
requires the creation of a Vulcan account. For more information on how to sign up –
visit . Submissions sent through other channels or after the white paper submission
period has ended will not be reviewed nor evaluated.
Whitepaper Preparation Costs
The cost of preparing and submitting a response is not considered an allowable direct charge
to any Government / Stakeholder contract or agreement. Non-compliance with the
submission instructions provided herein may preclude the company from being considered
for award.
Classification of Solution
The PCTE platform currently operates at Unclassified, Secret, and Top Secret/Sensitive
Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) levels. CIC#5 will require prospective companies to
submit responses at the Unclassified level but future implementation into PCTE will require
operation up to and including TS/SCI.
Content Overview
Vendors are not restricted to a specific outline nor must the submission be exactly eight (8)
pages in length, but companies are strongly encouraged to present a response in a manner
that enables the reviewers to easily identify the solution to each requirement and criterion in
this RFS. In addition, any submitted materials should:
• Be valid for at least 180 days from submittal;
• Submitted in an executable (not scanned) Adobe PDF format or a Word document format
*SUBMISSION MAY NOT EXCEED EIGHT (8) PAGES, TIMES NEW ROMAN
12-POINT FONT, NOT INCLUDING THE TITLE PAGE AND ANY NOTED
EXCEPTIONS HIGHLIGHTED ABOVE*
Cyber Innovation Challenge (CIC #5)